Age of Ancients

In the beginning, the world was a grey unchanging land. Immortal dragons, grey crags and Archtrees were all that could be found there. 
There was an important force missing in this homogenised world, Disparity. Light exists physically but the concept of light does not. 
The idea of light and dark makes no sense in a world where everything is grey and equally bright. Likewise the world has a physical temperature but the concept of hot and 
cold makes no sense when everything is the same temperature. The immortal and ageless dragons seem to be alive, but again the concept of life makes so sense when there is
 no such thing as death. I think of the dragons as 'animate' rather than alive.
In Dark Souls we are told that light and time are related, like two sides of the same coin. I like to compare this idea to the famous E = mc^2 equation that taught us
 that matter an energy are interchangeable, and can be thought of as two forms of the same thing. This is important as the age of ancients existed before the coming of 
 disparity and of light. This suggests to me that time did not function in the age of ancients as we understand it to now, explaining it's unchanging and everlasting nature.
To me the idea of the age of ancients, and the coming of the first flame, seems comparable to the big bang. We talk about the big bang as the beginning of time, 
and of the universe as we know it. To ask what was before the big bang, or before the first flame, is an oxymoron. There was no such thing as time. 
Things always were and never were. Had always been, had yet to happen, and were currently happening. The idea is entirely incomprehensible to us.

Advent of Fire

"And then, there was Fire, and with fire, came disparity."
So, this line has a real "let there be light" vibe. The coming of the first flame is clearly inspired by the idea of the Big Bang and creation myths. 
With the advent of fire deep underground, change is finally brought into the unchanging world. The concepts of light, time, and life now begin to work as we expect them to.
"From the dark, they came."

We see what looks like hollows approaching the first flame after an unknown length of time. Were they there before the fire, undying and everlasting like the dragons, 
or were they brought into being alongside the first flame? We can't say for sure. The line seems to suggest that they were formed in/from the dark, but it could also mean that
 they literally walked out of the shadows and into the light of the first flame as they approached it.
Around the flame (not 'in' it, this is a mistranslation) we are told that 4 powerful 'Lord Souls' were found by 4 of these early beings. Each of these souls gave their owner 
unique powers. Gwyn found the light soul, The Furtive Pygmy found the dark soul, Nito found the death soul, and The Witch of Izalith found the Life Soul. With their powerful 
souls these lords went on to defeat the everlasting dragons and bring about the first 'Age of Fire'.

Fading of the Flame

"But soon, the flames will fade, and only dark will remain".
The first flame was always destined to burn out, as fires do. At the time of Dark Souls 1 we are told that "only embers remain", but what happens when the First Flame is fully extinguished? A return to the age of ancients? A dark age where the owners of the Dark Soul rule as gods? It's fun to theorise but in reality we never get to find out.
Why? Because Gwyn "trembled at the coming dark, and clung to his age of fire". He did not go gentle into that good night (hello Vaati). He resisted the natural order of things, 
as we are told by Kaathe in DS1 and Aldia in DS2. The First Flame was supposed to burn out, but Gwyn found a way to reignite it, and thus began the cycles.
Gwyn linked the fire. This is one of the most interesting, important and confusing events in all of Dark Souls. What does it mean? It took 3 games and some great DLC, 
but we eventually learned more of the linking of the fire and it's consequences, so let's take a look.
Gwyn sacrificed himself and his power to rekindle the fire and extend his age of light, but this did not last forever. Eventually the first flame begins to fade again, 
and the 'darksign' is seen on some humans, the carriers of the Dark Soul.

"Those branded with the darksign are reborn after death, but will one day lose their mind and go hollow".
Carriers of the darksign are known as undead. They cannot die, but slowly lose a part of themselves and eventually go hollow, turning into mindless undead. 
The first appearance of the darksign was in the Ringed City, when Gwyn branded the ringed knights, as he had begun to fear humanity after seeing their power during the war 
with the dragons. Although not seen fighting the dragons in the DS1 intro, humanity had been able to forge powerful weapons and armour from the abyss, and aided the other 
lords in defeating the dragons. Gwyn then branded them with the darksign, containing the power of their dark souls within a ring of fire. It seems that he was successful, 
as once branded, humanity lost it's connection to the abyss, or at least it's control over it, as there is no evidence of humans ever again wielding powers given to them 
by the Dark Soul. As well as placing rings of fire to contain the power of the dark soul, Gwyn also created a ringed city at the edge of the world, ostensibly as a gift for 
the pygmies, but in reality this was just another method of sealing away the power of the Dark Soul.

We hear nothing of the darksign again until the time of DS1, where the first flame is fading and the curse of undeath has ravaged the kingdoms of men. 
Now I will admit to speculation here, but the most popular and fitting explanation for the simultaneous rise of the curse of undeath and the fading of The First Flame, 
is that Gwyn somehow linked the fire to humanity. Perhaps as the first flame burns low, darksigns begin to appear as the first flame drains humanity of their dark soul, 
using it as a backup fuel to keep itself alight for a while longer. The problem for us is that when humans lose their humanity (which is simply a fragment of the dark soul) 
they eventually lose their minds and go hollow. It seems very likely that Gwyn intentionally created the curse of undeath as a way to both extend the age of fire and bring 
humans on to his side.

The nature of humans is dark, not light, and the fading of the flame caused the power of Gwyn's Light soul to fade, but not so for the Dark Soul. 
However, by creating the curse of undeath, Gwyn gave humans a reason to want the first flame to be rekindled, and to return to the age of light where the gods would 
continue to rule. Gwyn created the way of white religion which worshipped him as a god, and instructed his children to shepherd humanity, and teach them to worship fire
and light.
For a long time we as players wondered what happened if we chose not to rekindle the first flame at the end of the game, but we now know that it doesn't matter what we decide. 
From the moment Gwyn first linked the fire, humanity lost its chance to ever see a true age of dark, and what it would mean for them. Because of Gwyn, when the flame fades
humans lose their dark soul and become undead, losing their connection with the dark. A true age of dark never comes. The first flame simply continues to smolder as embers,
until the day someone with a powerful enough soul decides to reignite the flame and begin a new age of fire. This is what we know as 'the cycles' and continues for seemingly 
thousands of years until the events of the ringed city DLC, where the world has been burning far longer than it was ever supposed to and is finally turning to ash.
It's a depressing situation, and is honestly a lose-lose situation for humanity. Either link the fire and continue to be manipulated and ruled over by the gods, or allow the
fire to fade to scorn the gods, but in doing so doom ourselves to undeath.
Thankfully the DLC for DS3 gave us a heart warming but bittersweet ending with the painter girl from Ariandel. 
It seems that with the Blood of the Dark Soul we retrieved with the help of Gael, she will paint for us a place where we can truly belong. 
A painted world with the Dark Soul as it's pigment. Speculation here, but I believe this world will contain the true nature of the age of dark, where humanity can retain 
it's connection to the dark and escape the curse of undeath. The world would be as it was supposed to be before Gwyn committed the 'first sin' and began the cycles. 
It will be a cold, dark and very gentle place, and will make for us a goodly home.